a hot topic to exploit in the 90s was
time travel everybody was obsessed with
going back in time so naturally a story
about a convict going back in time to
save the human race just makes sense
that's exactly what 1995's 12 monkeys is
all about spoiler alert everything i say
here is only my opinion and i strongly
suggest you try the film out for
yourself links of the film are in the
description
so a schizophrenic patient in 1990
claims that humankind will fall to a
deadly virus in 1997. i think he might
have been a bit off in his timeline but
the idea is believable for sure
interesting title screen the music makes
me question what kind of movie i'm
watching though the film opens to james
cole waking up from a terrible dream and
he finds out that his name is being
called over the pa system for volunteer
duty after he suits up he gets sent up
to the planet surface where we get to
see what earth looks like in the near
future honestly this doesn't look much
different from a few different places
i've seen already as co goes around
what's left of mankind's structures he
continues to collect samples of living
creatures such as a cockroach and a
spider as he's walking through the snow
he uncovers an interesting sign in the
snow so i'm assuming 12 monkeys is a
little society that leaves signs all
over a planet that doesn't have humans
just waltzing around to find them either
way i'm glad he found it once co makes
his way back to the underground prison
the scientists say they have an offer
that could considerably lower his
sentence next we cut to 1990 and we
follow catherine reilly who is about to
examine our protagonist
yeah
you want to go in there examine him
well isn't she just charming i have a
feeling this calm charming mentality
won't last too long after cole speaks
with catherine the two of them aren't
really able to understand each other too
well cole babbles about how fresh the
air is and catherine just assumes that
he's been institutionalized before
finally he tells you what year he was
supposed to be sent back to
that's the future james do you think
you're living in the future 1996 of the
past no 1996 is the future this is 1990.
leave it to those ragtag looking
scientists to send him back too far how
do you mess up by six years after cole
is taken to the county psychiatric
hospital he's processed and brought back
with the other residents where we meet
goings
brad pitt had someone the best roles in
the 90s i can already tell i'm gonna
love this character after going shows
coal around the common area of the
hospital cole is brought before a group
of psychiatrists that are attempting to
evaluate him after he tries to explain
himself he realizes that he really does
sound crazy but he can prove everything
if they just give him one phone call
yeah i think the last thing you expected
to hear was that voice and the sound of
the zoo of children in the background
later that night cole has another bad
dream of his childhood and i'm starting
to wonder if cole actually should be in
there but that night going tries to
explain his theory on germs while cole
is trying to find a way out eventually
goings catches on
eating
how them brad pitt not win every award
back in the 90s look at him what sad as
i do actually believe he can get coal
out probably not the way he wants to
though funny enough brad pitt actually
received his first golden globe and
academy award nomination for his
portrayal of this role the next morning
goings comes across cole who is drugged
up so much he can barely stay awake but
that's not stopping goings from helping
him escape
get it monkey
i've never heard the word monkey so much
in my life i knew goings would be my
favorite character though as going sets
up a distraction cole slowly makes his
way to freedom as he continues to try
and find a way out he gets cornered by
the guards and he's taken away to
solitary it was fully restrained and the
door was locked yes sir i did it myself
now i'm legitimately wondering which
parts of the film are real and which are
imaginary we get another glimpse at
coast flashback where we see the face of
a man he remembered briefly yeah that
face looks a little familiar when co
comes to he's back in the present and
he's speaking to a voice that he can
determine whether it's someone in the
room next to him or if it's all in his
head when the scientists begin to
question cole about what he did with his
time it starts to look like it was a
complete waste until
did you see all these people
oh wait
wait
of course goings is wanted in the future
as a scientist finished questioning code
they offer him another chance to go back
and try again of course cole takes the
offer this time he's sent back to an
undisclosed time but it's during wartime
he sees his cellmate being carried off
on a gurney and he is calling out to him
after he gets shot in the leg we cut
over to catherine giving a lecture in
1996. during catherine's lecture she
speaks about the same battle and the
fact that coal cellmate is actually part
of history now as a lunatic that was
looking for the pure germ that would
cause humankind to be wiped out i feel
like all of our characters can't catch a
break no matter what timeline we're
following i can't believe that this is a
coincidence mr cole
have you been following me cole isn't
sounding too good could he be the
dreaded patient zero
can you make this louder i keep
forgetting that this man that's been
sent back in time to stop the end of
mankind is going to be amazed by the
little things in life guess that's what
happens when you've lived underground
for almost your whole life while the two
of them continue their journey to
philadelphia one of catherine's friends
reports her missing to the police and an
apb is put out on her vehicle once co
gets ready to go he and catherine
continue on their journey to find the
army of the 12 monkeys when they get to
philadelphia cole finds a symbol all
over a wall and he jumps out leaving
catherine alone in the car she can
finally escape this is her chance what
does she do though
i see some red paint
at this point he's obviously not gonna
hurt her so what does she really have to
lose i'd be curious if he had been right
as well eventually the trail of symbols
leads them to an underground theater
where they are assaulted by two thugs
carl swiftly dispatches them and
catherine can't believe that he just
killed them
i see it people
this is a weird connection to real life
bruce willis's future a famous line from
one of his biggest films comes in the
sixth sense where the young boy tells
him that he sees dead people the chances
that bruce uses a similar line that
feels like it should have come after the
movie is too ironic sixth sense came out
four years after this film after they
escaped cole follows the trail even
farther and it leads him to people that
actually recognize the name army of the
12 monkeys
okay going to get us into something
yay my favorite character is coming back
but we all saw him being a secret
mastermind from the beginning he's too
crazy not to be he's picking his own
father a famous nobel prize-winning
virologist what are the chances that
he'd be disconnected though definitely
didn't see that part coming goings and
11 others of this activist group broke
off and formed the army of the 12
monkeys and they focused more on
guerrilla protesting actions after they
leave catherine and cole pull over in
the woods so catherine can take care of
his gunshot wound from the war after she
tries to persuade him to give himself up
cole restrains her and he heads out for
the gala that goines is attending that
night
that the dangers of science
this is the mastermind this face is the
one that cole has been looking for this
whole time how much information could he
really have
never seen him before in my life feel
free to torture this man or whatever it
is you do that's a bit harsh i figured
the worst they would do is kick him out
but torture after they walk around
talking about the potential of there
being a virus goings tries to confuse
cole on whose grand scheme this actually
was
it's hard to tell who's playing with
who's mind or if anyone really is or if
they're all just a little crazy i'm
starting to believe that one more and
more as ko runs back to where he left
the car in the forest he lets catherine
out of the trunk and she is furious once
we see the lights of police searching
the forest she begins to honk the horn
to attract their attention then cole
disappears yet
[Music]
am i even watching anymore this looks
like they tried to pull a kooky
barbershop quartet from the apocalypse
the scientists thank coal for his
service and the way that he connected
goings with the virus is exactly what
they had been hoping for with that
information they'll send others to
finish the job this is it james what
you've been working for
this mission feels very unfinished and
where is it gonna go if he can't stay in
the underground prison onto the infected
surface back in 1996 catherine has been
overwhelmed with evidence that supports
the fact that everything cole told her
is right or at least will be right she
takes it upon herself to try and stop
the virus from being released so she
reaches out to those involved to try and
piece things together where cole left
off time going but you're gonna get us
some deep [ __ ]
lock is ready battery's charged
never thought we'd be cincoins as the
full bread antagonist growing every time
we come back to the past yet here he is
preparing his army for an attack
now he's wondering if she's gone crazy
herself everything has come full circle
because now she has to convince him that
he wasn't crazy after all as they go
around town they are constantly seeing
connections to cole's future as
catherine is buying a disguise so she's
not recognizable we cut over to goins
and his army kidnapping someone in the
bus
this plot is thicker than i ever
imagined it would be especially
considering the cast that has bigger
building on this one but then things
like this happen i can't take that
disguise seriously while these are
perfectly believable disguises i just
can't see why they chose these ensembles
it's like a bad movie from the 60s as
morning comes animals are seen wandering
all over the streets without a worry in
the world while catherine seems relieved
by this being the attack by the army of
the 12 monkeys cole doesn't look as
relieved as the two of them make it to
the airport cole realizes that this is
where all of his flashback visions have
been of he realizes that he had already
experienced this place as a kid
come on james it's okay
oh damn isn't this where the talks of
time paradoxes comes into play
wow never saw him as the man we've been
after this whole time they did a
phenomenal job of making goings the red
herring throughout the film biological
samples
i have the papers right here
now
i'm gonna have to ask you to open this
up sir are you serious first you try to
open them on your own without knowing
what they are then you ask him to open
it after he says they're a biological
agent we were so innocent back in the
90s the scientist tries to get the tsa
agent to smell it but instead he sniffs
it as he almost makes it to the plane
cole pulls out a gun and gets ready to
shoot the scientist
everything came full circle and the
outcome was just the same while we may
have a lot of movies about time looping
full circle and stories being pieced
together throughout this was kind of a
big deal in 1995. this whole time he was
getting flashbacks he was really
watching himself get shot when the
scientist gets on the plane he ends up
shaking hands with one of the scientists
from the future and that's it the end no
conclusive ending no hint of anything
being changed or that call sacrifice was
ever even necessary to begin with for a
film from the mid 90s about time loops
and viral warfare it does a great job of
keeping the audience involved and even
now i believed it has aged very well
this film could have gone any number of
different ways but thanks to the
tenacity of terry gilliam we got the
film we have today at first he wasn't
going to be a part of it but he worked
out a contract with universal that made
it so he was in charge of the final cut
so long as he worked with brad pitt in
the role of coins i think that was a win
all the way around thank you so much for
watching don't forget to like and
subscribe if you'd like to see more
videos go ahead and leave a comment
about what i should watch next and i'll
see you in the next video